+++
menu = "main"
title = "Research"
type = "Research"
weight = 3
+++

### Southern Ocean

The Southern Ocean is unique. Consistent eastward wind results in upwelling of the water from the interior of the ocean, providing a passage for the exchange between the atmosphere and deep ocean.
Unlike other major ocean basins, it does not have boundaries so that water circulates all around Antarctica. This wind-driven current is called Antarctic Circumpolar Current (ACC) and flows eastward connecting Atlantic, Pacific and Indian Oceans. The Southern Ocean plays an important role in earth's climate. It stores up to 40% of anthropogenic carbon dioxide (CO2) that enters the ocean. The connection between the atmosphere and subsurface ocean makes the Southern Ocean the area where the ocean breathes. The Southern Ocean is also biologically interesting area. The biological activity has a strong seasonal variability (Fig. 1) and is generally limited by light in winter and micronutrient in summer. Although intensive biological activities in the SO (Fig. 1) promote carbon dioxide (CO2) uptake, the overturning circulation and the intensive vertical mixing in winter allow CO2 in the deep ocean to escape to the atmosphere at the same time.
The Southern Ocean has high eddy activities. When the upwelling brings dense water to the surface, it makes the ocean high in potential energy and eddies convert it to kinetic energy. My research interest lies on how these eddies modify the air-sea CO2 flux and other oceanic biogeochemical states.

### Air-sea CFC-11 exchange

A chlorofluorocarbon-11 (CFC-11) is an anthropogenic gas that was first introduced to the atmosphere in 1940s. CFC-11 is inert in the ocean with known atmospheric source, so it is useful to evaluate the ocean ventilation rate in ocean circulation models. Using an eddy-resolving model, we find that warm anticyclones have lower CFC-11 concentration at the surface, leading to more uptake of CFC-11 by the ocean (Fig. 2(e)). In cold cyclones, in contrast, the anomaly of CFC-11 concentration is positive, suggesting that cyclones take up less CFC-11 (Fig. 2(f)). The opposite sign of CFC-11 anomaly is attributed to the anomalous vertical mixing. Eddy centric analysis reveals more intense vertical mixing in anticyclones, but reduced mixing in cyclones (Fig. 2(a,b)). With strong vertical mixing, the surface ocean, usually saturated with CFC-11, is well mixed with low CFC-11 water at the subsurface, resulting in reduction of CFC-11 concentration at the surface and more uptaking of CFC-11. The opposite occurs in cyclones: less vertical mixing leads to higher CFC-11 concentration at the surface and less uptake. The anomalies in anticyclones and cyclones do not completely cancel out, leaving a net positive effect of CFC-11 uptake by mesoscale eddies. Please refer to Song et al. (2015) for more details.

### Air-sea CO2 exchange

While investigating the role of mesoscale eddies using both observations and numerical models, we find quite complicated, yet very interesting impacts of eddies in the Southern Ocean. The air-sea CO2 exchange depends on the difference in partial pressure of CO2 (pCO2) between air and ocean. Since atmospheric pCO2 is nearly uniform and well-known, oceanic pCO2 is a key factor for the air-sea CO2 exchange. In contrast to CFC-11, not only physical but also biogeochemical states of the ocean incluence pCO2, which requires more comprehensive analysis. In summer, oceanic pCO2 is lower in anticyclones while cyclonic eddies have higher oceanic pCO2. Interestingly, this relationship is flipped in winter and anticyclones/cyclones have higher/lower pCO2. The seasonality of the relationship between eddies and pCO2 is resulted from the time-varying balance between two opposing thermal and DIC effects. Please refer to our paper, Song et al. (2016), for more details.

### Patagonian shelf

Patagonian shelf, located in the southwest Atlantic ocean, is one of the regions of the biggest CO2 uptake due to the high productivity. I investigate the nutrient sources that support the ecosystem in the Patagonian shelf area using an adjoint sensitivity analysis with passive tracers. This computationally efficient method identifies three major nutrient sources: local area, Chilean coastal area and deep southeast Pacific. It also shows that the wintertime vertical mixing is one of the key processes that deliver nutrients to the Patagonian shelf region as shown in Figure 3. Guided by the adjoint experiments, I also performed a series of forward model with nutrient perturbations at the source regions. The forward biogeochemical integrations support the source water regions for the Patagonian shelf are also the sources of the nutrients. The manuscript that describes this study is under review, and I will provide it when it is published. Check out the story at mitgcm.org

### California Current System

The California Current System is located at the east of the north Pacific. Equatorward upwelling favorable wind draws nutrient-rich water from the interior to the surface making ocean very productive. In fact, approximately 35% of wild-caught fish come from here (Kudela et al., 2009). I investigated the interaction between wind, upwelling and marine ecosystem using ocean circulation model.

### Upwelling source waters

Along the California coast, equatorward wind transports water to offshore, creating divergence and upwelling at the coast. In the open ocean, the divergence and upwelling can occur when the wind-driven offshore transport of water increases as we go offshore. The latter mechanism is referred to the Ekman pumping upwelling and depends on the wind field structure. Equatorward wind can have an abrupt change near the coast, but cliamte models cannot resovle a sharp drop-off of the wind. I wanted to investigate how the upwelling source waters change if we can resolve the sharp drop-off of the wind near the coast.

When equatorward wind stress has a gradual change (left panel in Figure 4), wind stress curl is weakly positive over the broad region near the coast, causing weak and shallow upwelling. Hence, the sources for the upwelling are local waters. In constrast, the sharp drop-off of the wind stress creates strong positive curl near the coast (right panel in Figure 4). The coast upwelling become stronger with the Ekman pumping upwelling, and the deep enough to have the poleward undercurrent as a source. Equatorward flow is located nearer to the coast, and it also supplies water to the upwelling. This result has applications for predicting how interannual and decadal changes in wind conditions alter the source and properties of upwelled waters and, consequently, the marine ecosystem in the California Current. Please refer Song et al. (2010) for more details.

### Pacific Sardine spawning habitat

Following is the abstract of "Application of a data-assimilation model to variability of Pacific sardine spawning and survivor habitats with ENSO in the California Current System" in Journal of Geophysical Research, 2012:
The Pacific sardine (Sardinops sagax) showed significant differences in spawning habitat area, spawning habitat quality and availability of survivor habitat as the Pacific Ocean went through the La Niña state in April 2002 to a weak El Niño in April 2003. During another El Niño/Southern Oscillation transition period in 2006–2007 when the El Niño state retreated and the La Niña returned, a similar pattern in spawning habitat quality was seen. The coupling between the atmospheric forcing, the physical ocean states and the properties of the sardine egg spawning are investigated using dynamically consistent data-assimilation fits of the available physical oceanographic observations during these months. Fits were executed using the Regional Ocean Modeling System four-dimensional variational assimilation platform along with adjoint model runs using a passive tracer to deduce source waters for the areas of interest. Analysis using the data-assimilation model runs reveals that unusually strong equatorward wind-forcing drives offshore transport during the La Niña conditions, which extends the spawning habitat for sardine further offshore. A statistical model of sardine spawning habitat shows better habitat quality during the El Niño conditions, which is associated with higher egg densities and corresponded to higher daily egg production. Concentration of eggs is also increased by convergence of water. The results of the source waters analysis using the adjoint data assimilation model support the idea that offshore transport extends the spawning habitat, and show that higher levels of nutrient are brought into the spawning habitat with high concentration of sardine eggs.

Monthly averaged SST shows colder SST under the La Niña state (Figure 5). Since the offshore transport is stronger in La Niña years, upwelled water can be transported further offshore, resulting in gradual cross-shore SST changes. In contrast, the SST in El Niño years shows a pattern parallel to the coastline, which can be interpreted as an evidence of weaker offshore transport. Please refer Song et al. (2010) for more details.
